# Provably Fair Verification Tool

Welcome to the GambaGames' Provably Fair Verification Tool. The tool is subdivided into separate JavaScript files for each of the gamemodes available on the site, aptly named `{gamemode}.js`.  

## How it works

The Provably Fair system uses a combination of a secret seed, generated by random.org, and a client seed (made available publicly before the game is played) to determine the ticket (outcome) of any given game. Depending on the game, the client seed might be generated by the server (typically if multiple players bet on the same round), or your own client seed visible & changeable on your settings page can be used (typically used in single player games, e.g., dice, mines, etc.)

## Getting started

To use this tool, you'll need to provide the following information from the round you want to check:

- **Server Seed**: The server seed of the game you wish to verify.
- **Server Seed (hashed)**: The hashed server seed of the game you wish to verify.
- **Client Seed**: The client seed of the game you wish to verify.
- **Ticket/roll**: The ticket of the game you wish to verify.

Navigate over to the file with the name of the gamemode you wish to verify, and replace the placeholders in the script accordingly.

## Step-by-Step Guide

1. **Install Node.js**: Ensure that Node.js is installed on your system to run the scripts. You can download it from [the official Node.js website](https://nodejs.org/).

2. **Prepare Your Data**: Gather the server seed (normal and hashed), client seed, and ticket from the game you want to verify.

3. **Modify `{gamemode}.js`**:
   - Open `{gamemode}.js` in your favorite text editor.
   - Locate the following lines at the top of the file:
     ```
     const SERVER_SEED = 'b4b4b374240642986f70b276680974a7b807d58959c1148c33958c87a6829c98';
     const SERVER_SEED_HASHED = '6e53de566d92c9c2d365d044f4467cd3806ae37d8454d5ab0e9c3b57f72c9a11';
     const CLIENT_SEED = 'c3a52eaa232a27796ea187cdaf61073d';
     ```
   - Replace `"b4b4b374240642986f70b276680974a7b807d58959c1148c33958c87a6829c98"`, `"6e53de566d92c9c2d365d044f4467cd3806ae37d8454d5ab0e9c3b57f72c9a11"`, and `c3a52eaa232a27796ea187cdaf61073d` with the actual values you're testing.

4. **Run the Script**:
   - Open a terminal or command prompt.
   - Navigate to the directory containing this repository.
   - Run the script using Node.js by typing `node {gamemode}.js`. If you are verifying a roulette round, run `node roulette.js`

5. **Review the Results**:
   - The script will output whether the server seed and the ticket is valid based on your inputs.

## Understanding the Output

- If both the server seed and the ticket is valid, the game's outcome has not been tampered with and is provably fair.
- If either the hash or the winning percentage is invalid, the game's outcome may have been tampered with or the input values may be incorrect.

## Conclusion
This Provably Fair Verification Tool offers a transparent way to validate the fairness of game outcomes. By using cryptographic hashes and public seeds, it ensures that neither players nor operators can manipulate the game's outcome.